README.md, before:

# Introduction

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/eue1afldhmn6luvu?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/onlyutkarsh/vsostatusinspector)

Occasionally when Visual Studio Online (VSO) is down or having some issues, we head over to the [status overview](https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/support/support-overview-vs.aspx) page to monitor its status. How nice would it be to monitor the status while you code in Visual Studio? I thought it would be useful, and I just developed a tiny extension to monitor the status of VSO from Visual Studio itself.

The extension quitely sits in the Visual Studio status bar displaying an icon - based on whether Visual Studio Online is running smooth or has some issues or completely down. 

![](img/vso_status_inspector.png)

Download the extension from [**VS gallery**](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/e87c82b9-dced-4fe2-9a40-f90139c56882)

## Troubleshoot

[Issue: Status icon not visible in the status bar](https://github.com/onlyutkarsh/VSOStatusInspector/issues/1) 

- Go to `Tools` -> `Options`
- Under `Environment` -> `General` category, ensure you have checked `Enable rich client visual experience`
![](img/troubleshoot_options.png)
 


## Facing issues?
Please [raise a issue](https://github.com/onlyutkarsh/VSOStatusInspector/issues/new) and I will try my best to address and fix the issue.

Alternatively you can contribute the fix send the pull request :-)

Commit message:

Feature/vs 2019 changes (#12)
* Fix error and make it work with VS 2017/2015 (#8)

* compatible with VS2017 and VS 2015

* make it compatible with VS 2017 and VS 2015, rename to VSTS Status Monitor

* correct tags and description

* Develop (#11)

- [x] Compatible with VS 2015 and VS 2017
- [x] Rename to VSTS Status Monitor

* VS 2019 changes + polling logic

* icon in the statusbar

* auto update tooltip

* observable fromasync

* full ui as in support page

* custom monikers

* change to simple UI

* manifest and marketplace ready

README.md, after:

# Azure DevOps Status Monitor

The simple extension quietly sits in the Visual Studio status bar displaying Azure DevOps Service status. You can click on the icon on the Visual Studio status bar to view more details. 

![](screenshots/screenshot.png)

By default it fetches the status every 5 minutes, but you can configure it under `Tools | Options` in Visual Studio.

![Options Dialog](screenshots/options.png)

## Troubleshoot

[Issue: Status icon not visible in the status bar](https://github.com/onlyutkarsh/VSOStatusInspector/issues/1) 

- Go to `Tools` -> `Options`
- Under `Environment` -> `General` category, ensure you have checked `Enable rich client visual experience`
![](img/troubleshoot_options.png)
 
## Facing issues?
Please [raise a issue](https://github.com/onlyutkarsh/VSOStatusInspector/issues/new) and I will try my best to address and fix the issue.

Alternatively you can contribute the fix by making a pull request :-)

## Release history

> **v1.4**
> - Changed the name to Azure DevOps Status Monitor
> - Uses the new Azure DevOps Service Status portal API
> - UI Improvements to show rich icons
> - Changes to support upcoming VS 2019
> - Load the package asynchronously, resulting in Visual Studio to load faster.
> 
> **v1.3**
> - Support for VS 2017
> - Updated logic to fetch the status
> - Removed support for VS 2013. If you still using VS 2013 and need this extension, use the VSIX from [here](https://github.com/onlyutkarsh/VSOStatusInspector/releases/tag/1.2)
>
> **v1.2**
> - Thanks to [@stebueh](https://github.com/stebueh), the parsing logic is now fixed and status is updated correctly.
> - Changed the name of extension to VSTS Status Inspector.
> 
> **v1.1**
> - Update the timer interval immediately rather than waiting for a VS restart
> - Handle exceptions when unable to connect to support page.
